# Engine API -- EIP7547

Engine API changes introduced in EIP7547.

This specification is based on and extends [Engine API - Cancun](./cancun.md) specification.

## Table of contents

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Structures](#structures)
  - [InclusionListEntryV1](#inclusionlistentryv1)
  - [ExecutionPayloadV4](#executionpayloadv4)
  - [PayloadAttributesV4](#payloadattributesv4)
- [Methods](#methods)
  - [engine_newPayloadV4](#engine_newpayloadv4)
    - [Request](#request)
    - [Response](#response)
    - [Specification](#specification)
  - [engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV4](#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv4)
    - [Request](#request-1)
    - [Response](#response-1)
    - [Specification](#specification-1)
  - [engine_getPayloadV4](#engine_getpayloadv4)
    - [Request](#request-2)
    - [Response](#response-2)
    - [Specification](#specification-2)
  - [engine_getInclusionListV1](#engine_getinclusionlistv1)
    - [Request](#request-3)
    - [Response](#response-3)
    - [Specification](#specification-3)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Structures

### PayloadAttributesV4

This structure has the syntax of [`PayloadAttributesV3`](./cancun.md#payloadattributesv3) and appends the new fields: `inclusionListTransactions`.

- `timestamp`: `QUANTITY`, 64 Bits - value for the `timestamp` field of the new payload
- `prevRandao`: `DATA`, 32 Bytes - value for the `prevRandao` field of the new payload
- `suggestedFeeRecipient`: `DATA`, 20 Bytes - suggested value for the `feeRecipient` field of the new payload
- `withdrawals`: `Array of WithdrawalV1` - Array of withdrawals, each object is an `OBJECT` containing the fields of a `WithdrawalV1` structure.
- `parentBeaconBlockRoot`: `DATA`, 32 Bytes - Root of the parent beacon block.
- `inclusionListTransations`: `Array of DATA` - Array of transaction objects, each object is a byte list (`DATA`) representing `TransactionType || TransactionPayload` or `LegacyTransaction` as defined in [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718)

## Methods

### engine_newPayloadV4

#### Request

Refer to the request for [`engine_newPayloadV3`](./cancun.md#engine_newpayloadv3).

#### Response

Refer to the response for [`engine_newPayloadV3`](./cancun.md#engine_newpayloadv3).

#### Specification

This method follows the same specification as [`engine_newPayloadV3`](./cancun.md#engine_newpayloadv3) with the addition of the following:

1. Client software **MUST** check that provided inclusion list summary is satisfied. Each entry in the summary must have a transaction in the parent payload or the existing block payload from that address.

### engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV4

#### Request

* method: `engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV4`
* params:
  1. `forkchoiceState`: [`ForkchoiceStateV1`](./paris.md#ForkchoiceStateV1).
  2. `payloadAttributes`: `Object|null` - Instance of [`PayloadAttributesV4`](#payloadattributesv4) or `null`.
* timeout: 8s

#### Response

Refer to the response for [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV3`](./cancun.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv3).

#### Specification

This method follows the same specification as [`engine_forkchoiceUpdatedV3`](./cancun.md#engine_forkchoiceupdatedv3) with the addition of the following:

1. Client software **MUST** build their local inclusion list when the `payloadAttributes` are supplied.

### engine_getInclusionListV1

#### Request

* method: `engine_getInclusionListV1`
* params:
  1. `payloadId`: `DATA`, 8 Bytes - Identifier of the payload build process
* timeout: 1s

#### Response

* result: `object`
  - `inclusionListSummary`: `Array of InclusionListEntryV1` - Array of entries, each object is an `OBJECT` containing the fields in `InclusionListEntryV1` structure.
  - `inclusionListTransactions`: `Array of DATA` - Array of transaction objects, each object is a byte list (`DATA`) representing `TransactionType || TransactionPayload` or `LegacyTransaction` as defined in [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718)
* error: code and message set in case an exception happens while getting the inclusion list.

#### Specification

1. Client software **MUST** provide a list of transactions for the inclusion list based on local view of the mempool.
2. Client software **MUST** broadcast their inclusion list along with the full beacon block on their proposals.
